Let's learn about the contact log! Please feel free to pause, and rewind this video at any time. The contact log is a very important part of what we do here at C.D.S. It allows us to successfully track the progress that our consumers make towards their goals. By utilizing the contact log correctly, our consumers continue to grow and feel accomplished. Along with tracking the consumers goals, the contact log also serves as a way to verify when you started and ended your shift. This is important for payroll purposes. Let's now take a detailed look at each section of the contact log, and go over how to correctly fill it out.
Section A: The consumers I.S.P goals. Every year the consumers I.S.P goals are updated depending on how well they progressed. Utilizing the contact logs, admin are able to determine if the consumer needs their goals adjusted. Section A serves as a guide or to-do-list for you and your consumer. Each consumer has different I.S.P goals, so be sure to read each one, and always look for opportunities to work on those I.S.P goals. For example, if the consumer has a goal to learn how to cook, you can work on that goal by cooking a meal with them. If the consumer has a goal to learn how to use the bus, you can work on that goal by taking the bus with them. If the consumer has a goal to learn how to use the computer, you can work on that goal by teaching them how to use the computer. The contact log is a great tool to help you and your consumer stay on track with their I.S.P goals.
Section B: The I.S.P support level. This section is where you log how well the consumer did that day with the corresponding I.S.P goal above. For the first section, you'll circle "I" if the consumer accomplished their I.S.P goal independently. Circle "1" if they required 1 verbal prompt from you to get started. Circle "2" if it took 2 prompts, and so on. Circle "R" if the consumer refused entirely. Below that, you'll check the box for one of the following: Compliant, high acuity, C.R.T Phone, C.R.T on-site, or S.I.R event. Let's break each of those down. Circle compliant if the consumer was compliant with your verbal prompts and did what you asked them to do. Circle high acuity if the consumer was eventually compliant with your verbal prompts and it took awhile for them to do what you asked them to do. Circle C.R.T Phone if you had to call the Crisis Response Team to help you with the consumer. Circle C.R.T on-site if you had to call the C.R.T to come help you with the consumer. Circle S.I.R event if the Crisis Response Team instructs you to complete a special incident report. S.I.R or special incident reports are reserved for rare circumstances such as injuries or other emergency circumstances.
Section C: Every shift you'll do your best to assist your consumer with their I.S.P goals. Not every goal, every shift, but do your best to help with as many as you can. For every I.S.P that has section B filled out, you are required to leave notes in section C that give more details about how the consumer did with that I.S.P goal. For example, I.S.P #1 Consumer was agitated at the start of the skill but calmed down with 2 prompts and was able to complete the task. After he showered he asked for S.L.S suggestions relative to weather appropriate clothing. I.S.P #2 After a phone call from his mom the consumer became upset and started to pace, to help the consumer avoid escalating, S.L.S and the consumer decided to walk to the park and use the swings. This redirection helped and he was able to talk about his frustrations with the consumer. If the consumer has a goal to learn how to use the bus, and you took the bus with them, you would write in section C where you went, how the consumer did, and any other details you think are important. If the consumer has a goal to learn how to use the computer, and you taught them how to use the computer, you would write in section C what you taught them, how the consumer did, and any other details you think are important. 
Section D: This section is where you log your shift start and end times. You are required to write the time you started your shift, and the time you ended your shift. This is important for payroll purposes. Once you're finished with the contact log, print and sign your name in the bottom right. That concludes our overview of the contact log. If you have any questions, please contact your supervisor. 